# Research Interests
## Transition Metal Silicides
Due to their low resistivity, transition metal silicides play a decisive role as contact layers and diffusion barriers between semiconductor devices and interconnects in integrated circuits. Continued reduction in size of CMOS devices and the associated decrease in thickness of the silicide layer calls for methods with high sensitivity to the outermost atomic layers to investigate potential differences in phase transitions of ultrathin films as compared to thicker films. That's were the ToF-LEIS method comes in, which offers the possibility to study the formation and structure of transiton metal silicides in-situ and in a non-destructive way.

One example of my research on silicides is our [study of ultra-thin nickel silicide films](https://doi.org/10.1002/smll.202106093) (3.6 nm deposited Ni). By combining several ex-situ and in-situ experiments we were able to show that the phase transition for ultra-thin films deviates from the phase transition observed in thick films (>4 nm deposited Ni). While the phase transition in thick films is given by Ni-on-Si to orthorhombic Ni<sub>2</sub>Si to orthorhombic NiSi and finally to cubic NiSi<sub>2</sub>, our results show that for ultra-thin films formed on Si(100) substrates the NiSi phase is missing and a direct transition from Ni<sub>2</sub>Si to NiSi<sub>2</sub> takes place.

## Titanium based films
Ti-based thin films experience widespread use as wear-resistant coatings on mechanical tools, corrosion-resistant coatings on medical implants, diffusion barriers in thin film electronics and in multiple other fields, making them an appropriate showcase for in-situ ToF-LEIS experiments.

[Here](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.apsusc.2023.158076), we performed in-situ investigations on the effects of low amounts of oxygen and high temperature on four coatings, in-situ grown Ti and ex-situ grown Ti, TiN, as well as (Ti,Al)N. On the ex-situ samples, a persistent surface oxide layer was found, not removable by ion sputtering, limiting the effects of further oxygen exposure compared to the in-situ sample. Even at elevated temperatures, the nitride samples showed high stability towards further oxidation. Additionally, the formation of an Al-rich surface layer was observed on (Ti,Al)N above 600 °C.
